over the past couple of years on
shipping TV we have kept a watch on
Britain's port developments including DP
world's 1.5 billion pound London gateway
now at the start of 2014 we're moving
our new port focus north to Liverpool to
pill ports to birth container terminal
on the River Mersey to get a clearer
idea of the scale of this development
that see their own descriptive and
informative video the Mersey daschund
harbour company is to construct and
operate a deepwater river terminal in
the outer Mersey estuary it will be
known as Liverpool - Liverpool - will
provide two new births at the Port of
Liverpool for the latest generation of
post-panamax vessels each carrying up to
13,500 containers Mercy dock is an
existing and substantial water
empowerment stretching from Sandin to
Seaforth some three miles of waterfront
the Port of Liverpool is well situated
with ten motorways within 10 miles of
the waterway and ten rail links
terminals within the port estate regular
coastal services operate from the Port
of Liverpool to Dublin Isle of Man
Belfast the River Clyde and Glasgow
vessels deliver cargo from around the
globe directly into the heart of the
city and the center of the UK Liverpool
- will be a new to birth facility for
vessels 318 metres long 50 metres wide
and 15 metres deep close to Royal
Seaforth dock and adjacent to the
Gladstone river entrance it is located
just six miles from Liverpool city
centre to prepare the foundation for the
key wall breakers will remove circa
500,000 cubic metres of silt and clay
exposing the underlying sands and gravel
which topped the sandstone bedrock
disposal shall be back into nature for
silts using water injection techniques
with the clay being excavated using a
large backhoe barge mounted excavator
for disposal - dedicated city sites the
new key edge will be built using 400-ton
capacity barge mounted cranes and piling
gates fixed to jack up barges the one
point 8 meter diameter 40 meter long
piles will be pitched and driven through
the sands and gravels into the bedrock
sandstone 270 main wall piles will form
a structure 850 metres long and 30
metres deep in total
Liverpool - will use 20,000 tons of
steel dredges will initially import
500,000 cubic meters of material pumping
a mixture of sand and water along a one
kilometre delivery pipe a spray pontoon
at the end of the pipe will place the
discharge in layers over the area of the
works
working with the tides the key wall
anchor system is installed using 10
metre long steel tubes as anchor piles
installed 50 metres behind the front
wall and 160 millimeter diameter high
tensile steel time bars to effectively
anchor the new wall the level of sand
fill is increased to just under the
final pavement well about the influence
of the
the material is then vibrant compacted
to commence consolidation of the newly
formed land over the next six months the
total settlement is estimated at 15
percent or between 2 and 3 metres a
total of 3 million tons of sand will be
used additional concrete tiles caps with
a reinforced concrete beam form the
foundations for the rear legs of the
large ship-to-shore cranes a similar
beam is added to the front wall piles
this front beam is precast in sections
and lifted into place saving time and
reducing the safety risk to the
workforce working over water dredges are
redeployed to excavate the 60 meter wide
berth pocket trench to a depth of 25
metres into the bedrock sandstone for
this one of the largest cutter suction
dredges in the world is required and
labyrinth of drainage interceptors and
service pipe works will be excavated
into the filth existing stormwater
outfalls will be extended and modernized
to discharge through the new key wall
the container handling sea RMG's rails
will be formed the site will be surfaced
and roads made key furniture
fenders bollards and navigational
controls will be added large
ship-to-shore cranes and gantries that
have been preassembled and tested in
factories will be transported to
Liverpool on ships a state-of-the-art
terminal operating system will be added
to allow automation of the terminal
fences barriers and road markings will
be put down and welfare and workshops
will be constructed new trade and much
bigger vessels will bring 20-foot and
40-foot containers refrigerated units
and tanker units to the terminal in
their thousands these will be unloaded
and stored on-site
before being collected for
redistribution throughout the UK trucks
and cranes will be on the move 24 hours
per day seven days a week the terminal
will never sleep
Liverpool - from start to finish two
years of construction and many more in
the planning over coming months we'll
keep you in the picture with UK port
developments here on shipping TV